---
layout: post
title:  EVA AI Seminar - Part 1
date: 2021-03-05
modified: 2021-03-05
categories: english MSc homework EVA-AI-seminar
comments: true
summary: In my studies (MSc. Data Science) I am taking the module "EVA Artificial Intelligence Seminar". In this module we learn more about scientific communication in relation to AI. In this first post, I describe why I chose this module and what I want to learn.
---

*This blogpost was created as a homework assignment in the Artificial Intelligence Seminar*

# Personal Introduction
My name is Pascal, I am 27 years old and started my professional career as a hardware design engineer. Thereby, I came in touch
with software development and became interested in it. That's why I decided to study computer science at the Zurich University 
of Applied Sciences. During my bachelor studies I took the course "Artificial Intelligence" by Prof. Dr. Thilo Stadelmann.
I chose this course without knowing much about the topic. It just sounded interesting to me and I knew it would involve
a lot of mathematics, for which I always have had a passion. From the first lecture, I knew this course is somehow
different. I felt great personal interest and always wanted to learn more. Don't get me wrong, software development is also a 
passion of mine. But I couldn't imagine myself creating some login- or registration-windows for the rest of my life. I
was more interested in tasks that were not obvious to solve. Tasks that require some research at the beginning and which help to
improve my skills. I found exactly these challenging tasks in the "Artificial Intelligence" course. I think at the beginning 
that was one of the main reasons why I was so interested in this topic. After I graduated I was still so fascinated about AI that I decided to 
pursue a Master's degree in Data Science. My lecturer from the AI course Prof. Dr. Stadelmann agreed to supervise me personally 
during my studies. Furthermore, I got the chance to work as a research assistant in his research group. Since then, I have been able to gain
experience as an AI researcher with focus on deep learning. In doing so, I have a lot to do with scientific communication.
I think communication a very important topic and this module should be mandatory for anyone working in research but also in the industry. 
Without scientific communication we are not a (research-) community but only a bunch of individuals who work in the field of AI.

# Why I have chosen this Module and what I want to learn
I think information technology in particular is a really fast-growing industry to work in. In fact, it's so fast growing that we have
to keep learning for a lifetime. There are a lot of people who work in this industry and develop new methods. And that's exactly
why I think scientific communication is so important. The days of programmers sitting in their dark basement and hacking 
their code together on their own is over. Today, it's about global collaboration and exchange among each other. This 
requires two important skills:

- Provide information to others
- Consume information from others

During this course, I hope to improve both of these skills. By "providing" information, I primarily mean writing papers
and scientific reports, but also to hold presentations. I think we shouldn't write papers for our research backlog but always try to provide relevant 
information to others. Therefore, we need to think about what we want so say. Then we need to compress this information on 6-10 pages
in form of paper. It is important that it contains the necessary information, that it is precise but also understandable.
I think we can learn this by reading papers, but also by writing and getting feedback. A paper can have a certain complexity, 
but it should not be a platform to show off our technical knowledge. We
should always focus to provide information in an understandable but accurate way.

The second skill "consuming information" is often underestimated in my opinion. There is a huge amount of papers out there.
First, we need to be able to find the papers with the needed information. This starts by searching papers and then distinguish whether they are 
relevant for our problem or not. I think if a paper is well written (which refers to the first skill "provide information"), we 
should be able to decide its relevance by reading the abstract and the conclusion. After we found the relevant
papers, we can read through them. It is important to understand them in a good level of abstraction. I don't think we need
to understand every technical detail, but enough to grasp the main ideas.

I believe I'm a good software engineer (or at least I hope so). But I also think I have a lot of room to improve, especially
my reading and writing skills. This is also the reason why I took this course. For me personally, learning during the studies 
is more important than getting top grades. That's why I chose this course, which is about a topic where I tend to be worse 
at compared to purely technical courses. By the end of this course, I hope to fix this weakness of mine. I hope to be able to read
through papers faster and to better assess their relevance to a particular problem I want to solve. I also hope to
learn how to write papers and that I can apply these skills to my project- and master-thesis. 
I am really looking forward to the course and hope that we can learn from each other through good discussions and providing feedback.

