---
layout: post
title:  EVA AI Seminar - Part 5 - Self-Evaluation
date: 2021-05-31
modified: 2021-05-31
categories: english MSc homework EVA-AI-seminar
comments: true
summary: This is the 5th post related to the course "EVA Artificial Intelligence Seminar". In this post, I critically assess my own performance during the AI seminar and examine whether I have been able to achieve my personal goals.
---

*This blogpost was created as a homework assignment in the [Artificial Intelligence seminar](https://moodle.msengineering.ch/mod/data/view.php?d=62&rid=3128&filter=1). In this seminar we have to write a series of blogposts. In this post, I evaluate my performance during the AI seminar and examine whether I have been able to achieve my personal goals.*

# About the AI Seminar
The AI Seminar is about improving very basic tools of a researcher: Study, writing and presenting scientific literature. 
As I wrote in [my first blog post](https://sagerpascal.github.io/english/msc/homework/eva-ai-seminar/2021/03/05/EVA-Part1/), I consider this very important skills for any enginerr or researcher. 
A good engineer/researcher should not only master the technical side but also be able to read and understand scientific literature to benefit from findings from others. Additionally, he must be able to communicate his own findings appropriate to third parties such as other researchers, customers or his supervisor. 

This seminar had an effort of 2 credits, which corresponds to 60h according to the Bologna system. If we consider that there exist entire Bachelor's and Master's programmes about communication with 180 credits and 120 credits respectively, this is of course comparatively very little.
Nevertheless, we were able to acquire specific skills in this seminar, from which we will not only benefit when writing our thesis, but throughout our entire professional life.

I really liked this seminar because it does not focus on general communication but on scientific communication. During studies at a university of applied sciences, the scientific communication is unfortunately neglected far too often, although it is an incredibly important tool for anyone working in this field.
I have also made this experience myself. After my bachelor's degree, I started working as a research assistant. Suddenly I had to communicate scientifically without ever having learned it. I tried to teach it myself by reading papers. However, I often had trouble finding the right papers and evaluating whether they were relevant to my problem.
I also wrote papers in a way that felt right to and paid far too little attention to correct scientific writing.

To say it right away: I still have these problems - but much less. In the AI seminar we were taught different techniques and approaches. In group discussions, we often highlighted difficulties or discussed typical mistakes. 
These practice-based seminar has thereby improved my communication skills by a lot.

However, as I described at the beginning, we could not go into the details about communication due to time constraints. But this seminar gave us more than just a good introduction in this topic and provided us with further reading. As I want to improve my communication skills, I will use this opportunity to study more about scientific communication.

I am also convinced that scientific communication is best learned by doing. Like most of the participants in this seminar, I still have to write two project theses and a master thesis. Not only will I be able to apply what I have learned, but I will also be able to improve my scientific communication skills further.

# My Goals
I defined some goals I want to reach in [my first blog post](https://sagerpascal.github.io/english/msc/homework/eva-ai-seminar/2021/03/05/EVA-Part1/). These goals were:
- find papers faster and assess their relevance for a given problem
- read papers more efficient
- get prepared to write papers as well as project- and master-theses

Unfortunately, I have not defined metrics to evaluate if I have achieved these goals (however, I learned in the seminar that one should do to this).

During this seminar, I learned how to search scientific literature and what to look out for. Often, the search engines have a bias towards publications by well-known companies (Google, Facebook, ...) as well as well-known experts (Yann LeCun, Geoffrey Hinton, ...). Of course, this is not bad per se, but one should be aware of it. 
So in the seminar I not only learned where to find papers, but also what to look out for.

After finding the literature, it is necessary to assess its relevance. I have learned that it is not mandatory to read the paper section by section, but that it often makes sense to read the abstract and the conclusion first. After that, it can be decided whether the rest of the paper should also be studied. Once a paper has been found relevant, the sections "Previous Work" and "Introduction" often contain references to other relevant papers. Personally, I believe that assessing relevance often requires a good understanding of the topic. Otherwise, the intuition of how to apply the findings of the paper to a specific problem is missing.
Anyway, I learned these basics in the seminar and was able to apply them to my work. The tips in the seminar were very helpful and let me find and evaluate papers more efficiently.

My third goal concerns the writing of papers. The AI seminar contains two major writing assignments besides the blogposts. We received very detailed feedback on each of them, which was very beneficial.
I have summarised the general points from the feedback and try to apply them in my further career. However, I still need a lot more routine to write good papers.

# Assessment of my Performance
In the beginning, I often made the mistake of "thinking in German". This means that I formed a German sentence in my head and then translated it word by word into English (like a transformer with encoder and decoder ;) ).As a result, my English texts had a very "German structure". I have consciously tried not to avoid that and "to think in English”. My first blogposts not only had this "German sentence structure" but often also contained many translations from a [(great) translation tool](https://www.deepl.com/translator). During the seminar I started to write the blogposts with my own words and without translating them from German to English. I don't know if the quality of my posts is better now - in any case, I can now write much faster and feel much more comfortable. I think this was a good decision from which I can benefit in the long term.

I tried to actively participate during the seminar. I was able to ask many questions and tried to give feedback to my colleagues.
I think I belonged to the more active half of the class. Sometimes, I could have been more active during discussions, but on the other hand, I didn't want to steal the opportunity from fellow students who didn't talk that much to express themselves.

In the blogposts we wrote, I tried to critique my fellow students. I myself have received very good criticism and I am glad about it. I was particularly happy to receive negative criticism (although this is not a sign of good quality), as I was able to benefit from it. I always wrote my critique with the intention that it could help them. However, it was sometimes difficult for me because I didn't want to give a lot of negative criticism on their publicly available blog. I think the "barrier" would be much lower if the criticism could be written by email - otherwise it gives you the feeling that you are embarrassing someone in front of the whole world.

In the end, however, I think that the same applies to scientific communication as to most subjects in school: We learn the basics, which are later deepened through practical application. The AI seminar introduced me to a subject that is far too often neglected. I will try to apply what we have learned in this seminar in my studies and at work.




